Let's start with the gitops flow.
So you, the almighty developer, is working on a code API and then you push this code to a repository
in GitHub named Kubernetes code.
As soon as you push the code, a Jenkins job gets triggered, which builds the Docker container image.
The name of these Jenkins jobs is Build Image.
It sends the image in a container registry.
In this case, we are using Docker Hub and the name of the container image is Test Colon ten.
This colon ten is the tag for the container image.
This part is important.
Every time your code is changed, a new Docker container image will be created with the updated tag
coming back to the GitHub.
You also have another repo for Kubernetes manifest files.
The name of this repo is Kubernetes Manifest and we have deployment that YAML file in this repository.
This deployment YAML file should reference this newly created container image.
How does that happen?
So after these Jenkins job created this Docker container image, it will trigger another Jenkins job
update manifest which will update the image in the deployment html.
So now this deployment file references test colon ten.
Now comes the gitops part.
We are using Argo CD as the Gitops tool, but this approach will work with flux as well.
So Gitops continuously monitors this Kubernetes manifest repo and if the state in the Kubernetes cluster
deviates from the manifest files in the repo, Gitops will grab those changes from the GitHub repository
and deploy it to the Kubernetes cluster.
There is no container running in the Kubernetes cluster and the GitHub sees that.
So it is going to deploy the deployment YAML file into the Kubernetes cluster.
So in the cluster we have the container with the tag ten running.
So this is for the first time.
What if the application code API gets changed and pushed again?
So in this case the job build image will build a new container image and save the container image with
the new tag test colon elephant.
Then this Jenkins job will trigger the update manifest Jenkins job which will go and update the image
reference in the deployment YAML file.
So now the Kubernetes cluster is running the container image with the tag ten, but the deployment of
the YAML file is referencing to the image with tag 11.
So Argo CD will detect that and then it will terminate the container with the older tag and then create
the container with the newest tag, the Jenkins jobs that is building the Docker container image and
updating the manifest file is the CI or continuous integration.
And the GITOPS that is deploying the deployment file into Kubernetes cluster is the CD or continuous
deployment part.
So this is how a guitar flow look like, but how will this look like with traditional DevOps, without
gitops?
With traditional DevOps, it is more of a push model.
So the job which is updating the manifest, can run capacity commands to deploy those containers into
the Kubernetes cluster directly.
But what is the disadvantage of this?
Well, let's say if someone goes and deletes the deployment in the Kubernetes cluster, it is not going
to remediate automatically.
You need to somehow get alerted and then you need to rerun this update.
Manifest Jenkins job to push the changes back to the Kubernetes cluster.
Whereas with Gitops, as soon as something changes in the cluster, Gitops will immediately detect that
the cluster is out of sync with the GitHub repository and it will immediately bring up the deployment.
All right, enough theory.
Let's jump into the demo.